I'm just a beginner at Lab View and LIFA, but may have a clue or two that will help BryanFury et. al. On Mac: I got the Package Manager and the LIFA package and the firmware (base sketch) and their libraries installed and loaded to the Arduino 105 IDE just fine, despite the instructions here being very out of date, giving wrong paths and file names, etc. Arduino uploaded the LIFA base sketch fine to both a regular Uno and a Sparkfun RedBoard (uno clone).

The first problem I had (using LV Student Edition 2012 on OS X.6.8, Snow Leopard) was that VISA, which apparently is needed by LV to communicate with the boards over USB-serial, was non-functional. NI-VISA Configuration.app 5.2 would not even start up -- hung at trying to initialize. So, from ni.com/visa I downloaded the more recent v. 5.4, installed it over the old one (without trying to uninstall 5.2) and this ran fine, showing available USB and serial ports. By unplugging the board and refreshing the port scan, I found which was the Uno and named it "ArduinoUno" in the alias column.

With LV I opened the simplest example vi I could find, Analog Pin Read -- and failed with error like BryanFury had. Eventually figured out: Init.vi (open it to look inside) first looks at an input control (front panel) for VISA resource. Use that control to select the port for your board. My "ArduinoUno" alias showed up here and I selected it. Next right-click on the control and select Data Operations/Make current value the default. Without this, init.vi doesn't seem to store your port input selection. In theory if init doesn't see a control input, it should do an automatic scan and selection, but even with a standard Uno this is obviously not working, for OS-X anyway.

Another glitch, showing how very very fragile these vi's are: if your vi isn't working right and you click the red Abort button at top of code window, the close.vi does not reliably close the port. And unless close.vi releases the port, if you try to Run again, it may fail with a 5002 error. Open close.vi, make sure your board is selected and Run. Now, init.vi should work again.

I wish there were stronger support here by NI experts for LIFA, but this being the hobby end of the spectrum, they probably have more important work to do. It seems the example vi's that come with the package are pretty rough drafts and need a whole lot of tweaking to work properly.